# Two-Tier-Client-Server-Application-Development-With-MySQL-and-JDBC

Objectives:  To develop a two-tier Java based client-server application interacting with a MySQL database utilizing JDBC for the connectivity.  This project is designed to give you some experience using the various features of JDBC and its interaction with a MySQL DB Server environment.  Description:In  this  assignment  you  will  develop  a  Java-based  GUI  front-end  (client-side) application that will connect to your MySQL server via JDBC.   You are to develop a Java application that will allow any client (the end-user) to execute commands against  the  database.    You  will  create  a  Java  GUI-based  application  front-end  that  will  accept  any  MySQL  DDL  or  DML  command,  pass  this  through  a  JDBC  connection  to  the  MySQL  databaseserver,  execute  the  statement  and  return  the  results  to  the  client.    Note  that  while  technically  your  application  must  be  able  to  handle  any  DDL  or  DML  command,  we  won’t  actually  use  all  of  the  commands available in these sublanguages.  For one thing, it would be quite rare to allow a client to create a database or a table within a database.  Note too, that the only DML command that uses the executeQuery()method of JDBC is the Select command, all other DML and DDL commands utilize executeUpdate().    Some  screen  shots  of  what  your  Java  GUI  front-end  should  look  like  are  shown  below.    Basically,  this  GUI  is  an  extension of  the  GUI  that  was  developed  in  the  lecture notes and is available on WebCourses as DisplayQueryResults.java.  Your Java application must give the user the ability to execute any SQL DDL or DML command for which the user has the correct permissions.   Note also, that if the user wishes to change databases in the middle of a session,  they must reconnect to the new database. Their user information can remain in the proper window, but you must click the reconnect button to establish a connection to the new database. You do not need to support simultaneous connections from your application to more than one database in this assignment.  However, you will be able to start multiple instances of your Java application and allow  different  clients  to  connect  simultaneously  to  the  MySQL  server,  since  we  have  set  the  database server up to allow up to 10 concurrent connections. Once  you’ve  created  your  application,  you  will  execute  a  sequence  of  DML  and  DDL  commands  and  illustrate  the  output  from  each  in  your  GUI  for  two  different  users.    For  this  project  you  will create,  in  addition  to  the  root  user,  a  client  user  with  limited  permissions  on  the  database  (see  below).  The root user is assumed to have all permissions on the database, any command they issue will be executed.  The client user will be far more restricted.References for this assignment:  Notes:  Lecture Notes for MySQL and JDBC. Input Specification:The first  step  in  this  assignment  is  to  login  to  the  MySQL  Workbench  as  the  root  user  and  execute/run  the  script  to  create  and  populate  the  backend  database.    This  script  is  available  on  the  assignment  page  and  is  named  “project3dbscript.sql”.    This  script  creates  a  database  named project3.    You  can  use  the  MySQL  Workbench  for  this  step,  or  the  command  line  whichever you prefer.CNT 4714–Project Three –Spring 2017
Page 2The second  step  is  to  create  authorizations  for  a  client  user  (in  addition  to  the  root  user)  named  client.  By default your root user has all permissions on the project3 database.  Use either SQL Grant  statements  from  the  command  line  or  the  MySQL  Workbench  (see  separate  document  for  details on how to accomplish this task) to check and set permissions for the client as follows:    Register the new user named client (assign them the password client –   ignore the MySQL warning on weak password setting) and assign to this user only selection privileges on the project3 schema.    Output  Specification:    There  are  two  parts  for  the  output  for  this  project.    Part  1  is  to  provide screen  shots  from  your  application which  clearly  show  the  complete  query/command  expression and     results     for     each     of     the     commandsthat     appear     in     thescript     named:project3rootuserscript.sqlavailable  on  the  course  website.      There  are  eight  different  commands  in  this  script  and  some  of  the  commands  will  have  more  than  one  output  capture  (see  below).      Part  2  is  to  provide  screen  shots  from  your  application  which  clearly  show  the  complete  query/command  expression  and  results  for  each  of  the  commands  that  appear  in  the  script  named:  project3clientuserscript.sqlavailable on the course website.  There are three different commands  in  this  script  and  some  of  the  commands  will  have  more  than  one  output  capture  (see  below).  To produce your final output, first recreate the database, then run the root user commands followed by the client commands
